# Course:	Getting and Cleaning Data
# Coursework:	Peer Assessment / Course Project
# File:		CodeBook.md
# Purpose:	Describes variables, data, and transformations performed by R script, “run_analysis.R”, to clean up the UCI Human Activity Recognition (HAR) data.

Variables, data and transformations are described in code chunk sections below:

========================================================
1. Merges training and test sets to create one data set.
========================================================
Raw data from the test and training sets are loaded into these variables:

- X_test:	”./UCI HAR Dataset/test/X_test.txt"
- Y_test:	”./UCI HAR Dataset/test/y_test.txt"
- subject_test:	“./UCI HAR Dataset/test/subject_test.txt"

- X_train:	”./UCI HAR Dataset/train/X_train.txt"
- Y_train:	"./UCI HAR Dataset/train/y_train.txt"
- subject_train:"./UCI HAR Dataset/train/subject_train.txt"

Raw data are merged into a combined data sets with column variables on feature measurement data, activity label and subject label.
:
- testData:	Test data set.
- trainData:	Train data set.
- allData:	Test and train data set combined. 

=================================================================================
2. Extracts measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
=================================================================================
To identify what feature each measurement data corresponds to, the list of feature names can be referred to via:

- features:	"./UCI HAR Dataset/features.txt"

Based on the feature names, a string “grep” is performed to identify and extract only measurement data pertaining to “mean” and “standard deviation” feature values. The existing data set is subsetted to contain only mean/standard deviation feature data:

- meanStdData:	Data set with only “mean” and “standard deviation” feature values. 

========================================================================
3. Names the activities in data set with descriptive activity names.
========================================================================
To replace the activity label in the existing data set from numeric labels to descriptive names, the list of descriptive activity names is fetched:

- actLabels:	"./UCI HAR Dataset/activity_labels.txt"

A new data set (overwriting the existing data set) with descriptive names as activity labels is created:

- meanStdData:	Data set with “mean” and “standard deviation” feature values, now with descriptive names as activity labels.

===================================================
4. Labels data set with descriptive variable names. 
===================================================
To replace the variable names in the existing data set from “V” column labels to descriptive names, the list of descriptive variable names is fetched:

- featCols:	Descriptive variable names.

A new data set (overwriting the existing data set) with descriptive variable names is created:

- meanStdData:	Data set with “mean” and “standard deviation” feature values, now with descriptive variable names.

====================================================================================================================================
5. From data set in (4.), creates an independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
====================================================================================================================================
A table of average(mean) values based on data for each feature variable, grouped according to every type of activity and subject is generated by looping through every combination of activity types against subjects. A new data set is created:

- meanStdData.mean:	Data set of the average(mean) values based on data for each feature variable, grouped according to every type of activity and subject.

This final tidy data set is output and saved as a text table.

- “meanStdDataAvrg.txt”:	Final tidy data set file. 

